# MobileEducation
While nurses are on the frontlines of the COVID war, they also have another responsibility to their patients and to themselves; to stay up-to-date with the latest news and accurate information of our rapidly evolving, fluid situation. Education plays a pivotal role in how our nurses access current, evidence-based information for optimal patient care and patient education, as our patients rely on their nurses knowledge. As the Nurse4Health hackathon challenge statement reads: "Information about the COVID-19 pandemic is rapidly changing, and gaining access to reliable public health information has been challenging, highlighting a need for improved communication and trustworthy resources". Team Mobile Education would like to address this concern. 

Mobile learning is defined as learning content that is delivered using mobile devices as a medium. It can be seen as both learning with a mobile device and from a mobile device. In the 21st century,  learning is mobile. Learners need and want to be able to access education the same way they access information for their personal lives; anywhere, anytime and on the go. With regards to Nurses, that is the nature of our job--we are always on the move and our education needs to be able to follow us and be easier to access, rather than taking time and clicks to navigate through an LMS, to get to the desired content.  As LMSs begin to be absorbed into larger learning ecosystems, due to all the other ed tech that is emerging, Education teams need to be able to look beyond their LMS (if applicable) and embrace the mobile learning space. 96% of learners turn to their smartphones to search in times of need (Elucidat, 2018).  According to Weinschreider et. Al (2019), Google stated in 2015 that the majority of online searches came from mobile devices. It is predicted that by 2022, 9/10 clinicians will be using mobile devices at the point of care. Using mobile devices in this way allows real time access to information,  improves quality of care, decreases cost and enhances patient safety. With information on our current situation changing so rapidly, our staff learners cannot wait to sit at a desktop to get information needed to teach themselves and/or their patients. According to a survey done by Towards Maturity, 64% of staff find that the ability to access their education from a mobile device to be essential! 

Overlapping the changes to education and overall information access, nursing is going through another challenge; trying to close the experience-complexity gap. Millenials and Gen Zers are making up the majority of new hire nurses in hospitals today.  According to Marolf (2020), since 2000, the US alone has seen a 45% increase in younger nurses between the ages of 23-35.  The experienced nurses are decreasing due to retirement, etc, leaving novice nurses to become competent very quickly, all  while taking care of older and increasingly complex patients-including those with a COVID 19 history or current status.  Rather than there being a shortage of nursing staff, we are now seeing a "shortage of experience". 

As leaders in Education, Nurse Educators are responsible for identifying resources and scanning for innovative solutions for staff education. To answer the call of being able to provide staff with news and up-to-the-minute education on rapidly changing, fluid COVID 19 and social implications and disparities, our team proposes that we build an app for Nurses to download that will provide up-to-the-minute news regarding COVID treatment plans, the latest in vaccine progress, stats on impacted demographics (to target and address racial disparities, which will help educate our patients when preparing for [hopeful] D/C post-COVID treatment) and patient education modules so that at every touchpoint with the patient, they are ready, at the point of care with information as its unfolding. 

Potential name of the app…
Similar to 1010 WINS (NY based news radio station)--this can be 2020 WNRS… (the-NRS standing for Nurse)
When they are at the POC, through this news-like app (similar to Apple News),  Nursing staff should be able to access to find related information re: 
	• COVID and up-to-the minute news on treatment plans, new symptoms being noticed, etc
	• Any new data and stats related to demographics or patient populations
News content and updates can even be based on the type of unit the nurse works on, or service line to make it more applicable and personalized learning experience.  This will be based on information placed into the back end of the app such as the unit names within the facility, service line and then mapped to the nurses name or ID whichever is easier.  With tagging and mapping,  the most appropriate news and COVID information can be viewed by these nurses with the app to provide a higher quality of care for these patients. For example, if a pediatric nurse downloads the app and she enters the unit she is on, she should only get COVID news on the peds population not adult or geriatric patients for enhanced user experience and personalization.

Education on updated treatment regimens,  best practice can also be found on this app under another tab within the app. One tab would be for the news, which would ideally be updated on a regular basis,  and the other tab would be for education modules that are quick, responsive, and micro-sized for staff to access quickly.

References:
Greany, K. (2018). Profile of a modern learner [infographic].  Retrieved from https://www.elucidat.com/blog/modern-learner-profile-infographic/
Marolf, K. (2020).  Closing the Experience-Complexity Gap for Novice Nurses. Retrieved from https://www.childrenshospitals.org/Programs-and-Services/Pediatric-Learning-Solutions/PLS-Newsroom/Resources/Articles/Closing-the-Experience-Complexity-Gap-for-Novice-Nurses
Weinschreider, J, Sabourin, K.M., & Smith, C. (2019).  Preparing Nurse Leaders in Nursing Professional Development: Educational Technology Resources. Journal for Nurses in Professional Development. September/October 2019, 35(5), 281-285


